# The Analysis of Video Game Sales in the Past Decades
## INFO 201 "Foundational Skills for Data Science" — Spring 2022

Authors:
Wayne Wang, wwang25@uw.edu  
Muyang Zhou, muyangzhou8@gmail.com  
Norman Wang, ruocen@uw.edu  
Link: https://thew27.shinyapps.io/final-project-wwang25-2066240/

# Introduction
In this era of high-speed information technology, video games have become an essential part of the daily life of the millennial generation, especially during the outbreak of COVID-19 in the past two years. The epidemic prevention policy has led to an exponential increase in the sales of video games. Our group wants to analyze the sales of video games in the past decades and thus have the ability to predict the future market of video games.

Since all three of us in the group have been exposed to many video games, we have all played various types of video games, which will be one of the primary motivations for this research. We have two major questions that we would like to use the skills of data visualization to come up with insights for answering. First, we want to know the comparison of the number of releases for each genre of the game from the first year of data availability to the last year, and, at the same time, we could also inspect how the release number of each particular genre of the game varies across years. Second, we would like to compare the sales of video games on each different platform. In this way, we could have a basic understanding of how the sales of video games vary from the past to nowadays by comparing the sales of the older generation of a platform (PS for example) and the sales of the younger generation (PS4 for example). If we can understand the trend of the variation of these variables, we can predict the future trend of video games, which will benefit the development of the video game market. In addition, analyzing these trends can also help game production groups and policymakers to realize potential problems that might be related to video games.

# Conclusion / Summary Takeaways
In this group assignment, we are dedicated to study the video game's trend in the past decades (especially from 1980 to 2016). By studying a series of global sales, game genres, game sales of different years, and publishing platforms, we conclude a summary of statistics for the future development of video games. We used two charts to analyze the past trends of video games to better study its future trajectory. In the first chart, we are focusing on the video games genre on different time interval. We found that video games were at a low point from 1980 to 1990, mainly due to backward technological development, and a conservative social environment. However, after 1990, the annual launch of new video games showed an exponential increase, and this phenomenon continued from 1994 to 2010. We believe that this is the "golden period" of video game development, and the variety of video games is increasing, from the beginning of sports games, strategy games, until the action games occupy the main market. In the second chart, we studied the sales of different game platforms in different periods, our research shows that the most popular game platform for game lovers is PS2, in addition, we also found a very interesting phenomenon: when a game platform launches a new version, the sales of the old version of the game will decline rapidly, and the new version of the game will rise to a new peak in a short period of time, this is the general trend of the whole game platform, we predict that this trend will continue in the whole game market.

Now games have become one of the most popular pastimes for young people, the main pastimes of the previous generation such as outdoor sports and card games have become a thing of the past, video games have become the main pastime of the new generation and will continue to be in the future, this will become the main field of study for future college graduates, providing huge jobs for tens of thousands of people, our group's development of video games will hopefully become a valid data, so that people can look at the future of video games more clearly!
