### **Summary**

In this group assignment, we are dedicated to study the video game's trend in the past decades (especially from 1980 to 2016). By studying a series of global sales, game genres, game sales of different years, and publishing platforms, we conclude a summary of statistics for the future development of video games. We used two charts to analyze the past trends of video games to better study its future trajectory. In the first chart, we are focusing on the video games genre on different time interval. We found that video games were at a low point from 1980 to 1990, mainly due to backward technological development, and a conservative social environment. However, after 1990, the annual launch of new video games showed an exponential increase, and this phenomenon continued from 1994 to 2010. We believe that this is the "golden period" of video game development, and the variety of video games is increasing, from the beginning of sports games, strategy games, until the action games occupy the main market. In the second chart, we studied the sales of different game platforms in different periods, our research shows that the most popular game platform for game lovers is PS2, in addition, we also found a very interesting phenomenon: when a game platform launches a new version, the sales of the old version of the game will decline rapidly, and the new version of the game will rise to a new peak in a short period of time, this is the general trend of the whole game platform, we predict that this trend will continue in the whole game market.

Now games have become one of the most popular pastimes for young people, the main pastimes of the previous generation such as outdoor sports and card games have become a thing of the past, video games have become the main pastime of the new generation and will continue to be in the future, this will become the main field of study for future college graduates, providing huge jobs for tens of thousands of people, our group's development of video games will hopefully become a valid data, so that people can look at the future of video games more clearly!
